+----------------------------------------+
| The Official Quake Deathmatch TEST     |
| Released Saturday, February 24th, 1996 |
| Copyright (C) 1996 id Software, inc.   |
+----------------------------------------+
| Linux Subsystem Documentation          |
| by Dave Taylor                         |
+----------------------------------------+

This is Quake for Linux, test 1a.  It was compiled and tested under an
ELF 1.3.62 system with the tasd-3.5-beta7 sound code, using gcc 2.7.0
and libc.so.5.0.9.  You must first download the qtest1.zip package (you
can find it at quake.best.com:/pub/idsoftware) and unpack that in a
directory.  Then, place the xquake executable in that directory and run
it from there.  You must be able to run ELF applications.

This version of Quake requires that you have the new mmapable sound
driver.  You can find the sound code at tasd-3.5-beta7.tar.gz from
ftp.best.com/pub/front/tasd.  This code allows Quake to memory-map the
sound DMA buffer, eliminating a seperate sound process, lowering
latency, and better-modelling DOS code.  This code does *not* work with
the GUS, though there are some reports that it works with the GUS MAX.
Linux GUS support may or may not happen.

This also contains a version called xf86quake, featuring the new DGA
code in XFree 3.1.2D which is available at ftp.xfree86.org.  DGA allows
direct access to the frame buffer, page flipping, proper mouse behavior,
and proper keyboard behavior.  As it stands, the function which does
page flips is waiting for the vertical retrace.  This causes the game to
run much slower, so xquake may be faster for now.  This will be fixed
soon.  In addition, there are problems grabbing the colormap with this
version.  If you experience trouble with this, kill your window manager
before running the game and start it up after leaving.  xf86quake
requires that your virtual desktop size be twice the current resolution,
or page-flipping will not work.  So for instance, if you are running
your X server at 320x200, your virtual desktop size must be 320x400 or
larger.  xf86quake must also be run as root in order to memory-map the
frame buffer.

There are no Linux-specific command-line options, variables, or
commands, beyond what is mentioned in the sound.txt file.

The purpose of this release is to test for bugs & compatability
problems.  Please do not send comments back to personal e-mail accounts.
They will be ignored.  Submit bug reports to qtest1@idsoftware.com.

